[Docs] New Drivers and ORMs Section (#10878)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/reference/drivers/go/pgx-reference.md

---
title: Go Drivers
linkTitle: Go Drivers
description: Go Drivers for YSQL
headcontent: Go Drivers for YSQL
image: /images/section_icons/sample-data/s_s1-sampledata-3x.png
menu:
  latest:
    name: Go Drivers
    identifier: ref-postgres-jdbc-driver
    parent: drivers
    weight: 600
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">

  <li >
    <a href="/latest/reference/drivers/go/pgx-reference/" class="nav-link active">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      PGX Driver
    </a>
  </li>

  <li >
    <a href="/latest/reference/drivers/go/pq-reference/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      PQ Driver
    </a>
  </li>

</ul>

The [PGX driver](https://github.com/jackc/pgx/) is one of the most popular and actively maintained

> drivers for PostgreSQL which can be used for connecting to YugabyteDB YSQL as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
drivers for PostgreSQL.
```

> This driver allows Go programmers to connect to YugabyteDB database to execute DMLs and DDLs using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This driver allows Go programmers to connect to YugabyteDB to execute DMLs and DDLs using
```

the PGX APIs. It also supports the standard `database/sql` package.

> ## Fundamentals of PGX Driver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## CRUD Operations with PGX driver
```

Learn how to establish a connection to YugabyteDB database and begin simple CRUD operations using
the steps in the [Build an application](../../../../quick-start/build-apps/go/ysql-pgx) page under the
Quick start section.

> Let us break down the quick start example and understand how to perform the common tasks required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections break down the quick start example to demonstrate how to perform common tasks required for Go application development using the PGX driver.
```

> for Go App development using the PGX driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Import the driver package

You can import the PGX driver package by adding the following import statement in your Go code.

```go
import (
  "github.com/jackc/pgx/v4"
)
```

### Connect to YugabyteDB database

> Go Apps can connect to the YugabyteDB database using the `pgx.Connect()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go applications can connect to YugabyteDB using the `pgx.Connect()` function.
```

> All the common functions or structs required for working with YugabyteDB database is part of `pgx` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `pgx` package includes all the common functions or structs required for working with YugabyteDB.
```

> Use the `pgx.Connect()` method for getting connection object for the YugabyteDB database which can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `pgx.Connect()` method to create the connection object, for
```

> be used for performing DDLs and DMLs against the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performing DDLs and DMLs against the database.
```
